# 24_JRL_FANTASTIC_ENZYMES
## Lipases / Acyltransferases
### blablabla
- Subject
Lipases are among the most widely studied enzymes for the biocatalytic synthesis of bio-based esters, with applications in the food, fine-chemistry, biomaterials, cosmetic and biofuel sectors. Your objective will be to select, via a in silico screening, optimal enzymes for synthesizing a polyphenol ester of your choice. You will then validate experimentally the activity of the selected enzyme for your application. To start, you will be provided with the amino acid sequences of a set of lipases, esterases and acyltransferases available in our laboratory. These enzymes have the potential to catalyze key reactions that are important for developing a range of bio-based products. Using advanced AI tools like AlphaFold and RosettaFold, you will predict the three-dimensional structures of these enzymes from their amino acid sequences. This step is crucial for understanding how the enzymes function and interact with various substrates. Next, you will use virtual molecular docking tools to evaluate how well these enzymes bind to substrates selected among fatty esters, alcohols and polyphenols. This analysis will help you identify which enzymes have the highest potential for the desired reactions. Finally, you will test the most promising enzyme candidates in the lab. You will design and conduct experimental enzymatic assays to validate your computational predictions, providing a thorough evaluation of the enzymes' effectiveness.

[Google Drive's link] (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WXkrV_WXrxHGaHoOLogK8R0i5Q0M485LR06qGD6W74w/edit)
![Candida antartica] (https://www.bing.com/images/search?view=detailV2&ccid=KFiiHPcY&id=4DE46C02A682C5AFE48AF2338CA96787EE03F528&thid=OIP.KFiiHPcYUka9A5fR_uB5vgAAAA&mediaurl=https%3a%2f%2fchemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com%2fcms%2fasset%2f90c7c94b-0fee-4641-9ece-1af1801103c4%2fmcontent.jpg%3ftrick%3d1708346310495&cdnurl=https%3a%2f%2fth.bing.com%2fth%2fid%2fR.2858a21cf7185246bd0397d1fee079be%3frik%3dKPUD7odnqYwz8g%26pid%3dImgRaw%26r%3d0&exph=345&expw=345&q=acyltransferase+candida&simid=608048876112142928&FORM=IRPRST&ck=B3932B7B5BE3202C1FCA2D3550E32433&selectedIndex=2&itb=0&ajaxhist=0&ajaxserp=0)
